% -*- latex -*-
%
% $COPYRIGHT$
%

\subsection{Maui Scheduler}

The Maui Scheduler OSCAR package contains the following copyrights and
licenses.

\begin{verbatim}
Maui Scheduler General Public License

This product includes software developed for The University of New
Mexico High Performance Computing Education and Research Center for
use in the Maui Scheduler software.  Copyright (C) 2000 Science and
Technology Corporation @ UNM, Software developed for The University of
New Mexico.  All Rights Reserved.  Maui Scheduler is a trademark of
Science & Technology Corporation @ UNM

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS AND SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION @
UNM (STC) AND THE UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO (UNM) DISCLAIM ALL
WARRANTIES RELATING TO THE SOFTWARE, WHETHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  NEITHER UNM, STC, NOR ANYONE
INVOLVED IN THE CREATION, PRODUCTION, OR DELIVERY OF THE SOFTWARE
SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE EVEN IF UNM OR
STC HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES OR CLAIMS.  IN
NO EVENT SHALL UNM'S LIABILITY FOR ANY DAMAGES EXCEED THE
CONSIDERATION PAID FOR THE LICENSE TO USE THE SOFTWARE, REGARDLESS OF
THE FORM OF CLAIM.  THE PERSON OR ENTITY USING THE SOFTWARE BEARS ALL
RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE.

By installing or using this software you are accepting a non-exclusive
license to install, use, modify, and redistribute, and make
modifications to the SOFTWARE ("LICENSE") pursuant to the following
conditions:

1. All copies of the SOFTWARE, whether or not for redistribution and
whether or not in source code or in binary form must include a
conspicuous and appropriate publication of the above copyright notice
and disclaimer.

2. Redistribution of the SOFTWARE in any form whatsoever, including
parts of the code that are incorporated into other software programs,
must include a conspicuous and appropriate publication of the
following acknowledgement:

"This product includes software developed for The University of New
Mexico High Performance Computing Education and Research Center for
use in the Maui Scheduler software.  Maui Scheduler is a trademark of
Science & Technology Corporation @ UNM"

Any such modification of the SOFTWARE must, when installed, display
the above language, the copyright notice, and the warranty disclaimer.

3. A copy of any modifications to the SOFTWARE beyond those necessary
for the SOFTWARE to function with licensee's system must be forwarded
as source code to the Maui High Performance Computing Center at
webmaster@mhpcc.edu. The forwarded modifications are to be accompanied
with a brief explanation of why the modification was made and
resulting performance of the modifications.  Failure to do so renders
the license invalid, as well as any licenses you grant to third
parties subsequent to the incorporation of the modifications into the
SOFTWARE.

4. Copyright owners of modifications to SOFTWARE hereby grant HPCERC a
non-exclusive, royalty-free, world-wide, irrevocable right and license
to install, use, distribute, sublicense, and prepare derivative works
of said modifications.

5. The name "Maui Scheduler" or its variants must not otherwise be
used to endorse or to promote products derived from the SOFTWARE
without prior written permission from STC.

6. Products derived from or incorporating the SOFTWARE in whole or in
part shall not contain as part of the product's name any form of the
terms "High Performance Computing Education and Research Center,
"HPCERC", "Maui", "University of New Mexico", "UNM", "Maui High
Performance Computing Center", or "MPHCC", unless prior written
permission has been received from the University of New Mexico Patent
Administration Office.

7. All advertising materials for products that use or incorporate
features of the SOFTWARE must display the following acknowledgement:
"This product includes software developed for The University of New
Mexico for use in the Maui Scheduler Software."

8. It is not required that you accept this LICENSE; however, if you do
not accept the terms of this LICENSE, you are prohibited by law from
installing, using, modifying or distributing the SOFTWARE or any of
its derivative works.  Therefore, by installing, using, modifying or
distributing the SOFTWARE (or any of its derivative works), you have
agreed to this LICENSE and have accepted all its terms and conditions.

9. Each time the SOFTWARE is redistributed (or any work based on the
SOFTWARE), the recipient automatically receives this license from STC
to copy, distribute or modify the SOFTWARE subject to these terms and
conditions, and has the choice of accepting or declining the license.
As the LICENSEE, you shall automatically provide the recipient with a
copy of this license.  Further restrictions are not to be imposed on
recipients of the SOFTWAE by the LICENSEE beyond those expressly
described herein.  The LICENSEE is not responsible for enforcing
compliance with this LICENSE by recipients.

10. If any portion of this LICENSE is held invalid or unenforceable
under any particular circumstance, the balance of the LICENSE will
continue to apply.  \end{verbatim}

And the Moab package contains the following:

\begin{verbatim}
Moab Scheduling System General License

This product was created by the Supercluster Development Group,
Copyright (C) 1999-2003 Supercluster Development Group, all rights
reserved.  Moab Scheduling System (TM) is a trademark of Cluster
Resources, Inc.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS AND THE SUPERCLUSTER DEVELOPMENT GROUP
(SDG) AND ALL CONTRIBUTING PARTIES DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES RELATING TO
THE SOFTWARE, WHETHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  NEITHER SDG NOR ANYONE INVOLVED IN THE CREATION,
PRODUCTION, OR DELIVERY OF THE SOFTWARE SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY
INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE
OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE EVEN IF SDG HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES OR CLAIMS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL SDG'S
LIABILITY FOR ANY DAMAGES EXCEED THE CONSIDERATION PAID FOR THE
LICENSE TO USE THE SOFTWARE, REGARDLESS OF THE FORM OF CLAIM.  THE
PERSON OR ENTITY USING THE SOFTWARE BEARS ALL RISK AS TO THE QUALITY
AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE.

By installing or using this software you are accepting a non-exclusive
license to install, use, modify, and redistribute, and make
modifications to the SOFTWARE ("LICENSE") pursuant to the following
conditions:


1.  Copyright

  All copies of the SOFTWARE, in source code or in binary form, must
include a conspicuous publication of the above copyright notice, this
license, and the above disclaimer.


2.  Usage

  Source and/or binary forms of SOFTWARE may be freely used by any
organization pursuant to the conditions of this license.


3.  Distribution

  Academic and government agencies may redistribute SOFTWARE subject
to the condition that the distribution contain conspicuous publication
of the following acknowledgement in both packaging and execution
software:

  "This product contains code developed by the Supercluster
Development Group.  Moab Scheduling System is a trademark of the
Cluster Resources, Inc."

  Commercial and other for profit organizations may not redistribute
this code or derivations of this code in any form whatsoever,
including parts of SOFTWARE incorporated into other software programs
without express written permission from Cluster Resources, Inc.


4.  Modifications

  SOFTWARE may be freely modified as necessary to meet the needs of
the licensee's system.  Licensees which wish to distribute their
modifications (including government and academic institutions, and
those with a written license to redistribute) must first send a copy
of the modifications along with descriptive text to the Supercluster
Development Group at support@supercluster.org.  Those without license
to redistribute may send modifications to the Supercluster Development
Group for evaluation and possible incorporation into SOFTWARE.
Failure to send a copy of distributed modifications renders the
license invalid, as well as any licenses granted to third parties
subsequent to the incorporation of the modifications into SOFTWARE.

  Upon receipt of modification notice, Supercluster Development Group,
may, at their disgression, send the submittor a nice hat or a short
note stating in effect, 'Thank you very much.  We really appreciate
you making these changes.  We hope you have a nice day."

  Any such modification of the SOFTWARE must, when installed, display
this license, the copyright notice, and the warranty disclaimer as
described in paragraph 1.


5.  Use of Modifications

  Copyright owners of modifications to SOFTWARE hereby grant SDG a
non- exclusive, royalty-free, world-wide, irrevocable right and
license to install, use, distribute, sublicense, and prepare
derivative works of said modifications.


6.  Product Endorsement

  The name "Moab Scheduling System" or its variants must not otherwise
be used to endorse or to promote products derived from SOFTWARE
without prior written permission from Cluster Resources, Inc.


7.  Use of Trademarks

  Products derived from or incorporating SOFTWARE in whole or in part
shall not contain as part of the product's name any form of the terms
"Supercluster Development Group", "SDG", "Cluster Resources", "Moab",
or "Moab Scheduling System" or "Moab Scheduler" unless prior written
permission has been received from the Cluster Resources, Inc.


8.  Advertising

  All advertising materials for products that use or incorporate
features of the SOFTWARE must display the following acknowledgement:
"This product includes software developed by The Supercluster
Development Group for use in the Moab Scheduling System."


9.  License Acceptance

  It is not required that you accept this LICENSE; however, if you do
not accept the terms of this LICENSE, you are prohibited by law from
installing, using, modifying or distributing the SOFTWARE or any of
its derivative works.  Therefore, by installing, using, modifying or
distributing the SOFTWARE (or any of its derivative works), you have
agreed to this LICENSE and have accepted all its terms and conditions.


10.  Perpetuation of License

  Each time the SOFTWARE is redistributed (or any work based on the
SOFTWARE), the recipient automatically receives this license from
Cluster Resources, Inc. to copy, distribute or modify the SOFTWARE
subject to these terms and conditions, and has the choice of accepting
or declining the license.  As the LICENSEE, you shall automatically
provide the recipient with a copy of this license.  Further
restrictions are not to be imposed on recipients of the SOFTWAE by the
LICENSEE beyond those expressly described herein.  The LICENSEE is not
responsible for enforcing compliance with this LICENSE by recipients.


11.  License Enforcement 

  If any portion of this LICENSE is held invalid or unenforceable
under any particular circumstance, the balance of the LICENSE will
continue to apply.
\end{verbatim}
