======================
Cc: wallira@ornl.gov, betsy, stephen

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

++++
MEDIA CONTACT: Ron Walli
Communications & Community Outreach
(865) 576-0226

======================


OAK RIDGE, Tenn., October 7, 2003 -- The OSCAR working group has  released
a new version of the Open Source  Cluster  Application	Resources  (OSCAR)
toolkit, OSCAR 2.3.1.

OSCAR is a software package that  supports	the  use  of  high-performance
computing by reducing the work	of	cluster  configuration,  installation,
operation, and management.	Enhancements to previous versions of OSCAR	in
OSCAR 2.3.1  include  a  faster,  multicast-based  version	of	the  OSCAR
installer; a more scalable version of  OSCAR's	remote	command  execution
toolkit; a more expressive packaging API, which allows package authors	to
more easily convey package requirements; and a	redesigned	and  improved,
Qt-toolkit-based,  graphical  user	interface  for	 the   OSCAR   Package
Downloader (OPD) wizard.  This improved wizard enables a user to  download
additional	packages  from	on-line  repositories  prior  to  the  cluster
install.

OSCAR 2.3.1 also includes the new LAM/MPI 7.0 communications library,  and
supports the use of  several  previously  unsupported  software  packages,
including Myrinet, PVFS, and Clumon. These new packages can be downloaded
at the start of an installation via OPD and  then  installed  as  part	of
normal OSCAR installation.

OSCAR 2.3.1, has been fully tested for use with IA32 processors, under Red
Hat 8.0, 9.0  and  Mandrake  9.0.	OSCAR  2.3.1  does	not  support  IA64
platforms.	Those seeking IA64 support should use version 2.2.1  of  OSCAR
for now.

OSCAR 2.3.1, OSCAR 2.2.1,  and	additional	information  about	the  OSCAR
project are available from the OSCAR project page:

     http://sourceforge.net/projects/oscar/


The OSCAR  working	group  is  a  consortium  of  industry,  academic  and
research participants.	Primary contributors include  Bald	Guy  Software,
Dell,  IBM,  Intel,  Indiana  University,  Intel,  MSC.Software,  National
Computational Science Applications (NCSA), Oak Ridge  National	Laboratory
(ORNL) and Sherbrooke University.  OSCAR  is  the  product	of	the  OSCAR
working group of the Open Cluster Group (OCG). OCG is dedicated to making
cluster computing practical.  The OCG and its subgroups are open  to  all.


Related resources:
   + OSCAR Working Group Homepage
     http://www.OpenClusterGroup.org/OSCAR

   + OSCAR Project Homepage
     http://sourceforge.net/projects/oscar

   + OSCAR Mailing Lists
      User Questions: <oscar-users@lists.sourceforge.net>
         Development: <oscar-devel@lists.sourcefore.net>

   + Open Cluster Group Homepage
     http://www.OpenClusterGroup.org

   + Thin-OSCAR (diskless) Working Group Homepage
     http://www.OpenClusterGroup.org/Thin-OSCAR

   + HA-OSCAR (high-availability) Working Group Homepage
     http://www.OpenClusterGroup.org/HA-OSCAR

ORNL is a Department of Energy multi-program research facility managed	by
UT-Battelle.


