Developers Release of Linux Cluster Software to Debut at Linux World

ORNL, NCSA team with six industry leaders to create 'supercomputer on a
CD'

OAK RIDGE, TN / CHAMPAIGN, IL, January 25, 2001-- Software that will
make configuring and maintaining a Linux cluster as easy as installing
commercial software from a CD will be demonstrated by IBM and Intel at
next week's Linux World Conference in New York.

This software, called Open Source Cluster Applications Resources
(OSCAR), is ready to distribute to experienced cluster computing
professionals as a developer's release. A full release of OSCAR for the
general cluster computing community will be ready in the near future.

OSCAR is being developed by the Open Cluster Group, a collaboration
among major research centers and technology companies led by the Oak
Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL), University of Illinois' National
Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA), IBM and Intel.  Other
collaborators in the Open Cluster Group are Dell, SGI, MSC.Software, and
Veridian. Members of NCSA's cluster development team will assist with
the demos at Linux World. Dell will provide the equipment for the demos.

"This software is a big step in the process of making clusters a
simpler, more accessible computing technology for the user community,"
said Rob Pennington, director of computing and communications at NCSA
and head of the center's cluster development efforts. "When our first
public version of OSCAR is released in a few weeks, it will make it
possible to build clusters quickly and easily using commodity hardware."

OSCAR is being developed as a complete Linux cluster infrastructure that
allows users to set up a parallel Linux supercomputing cluster in a
matter of hours. The tools included in OSCAR are all community accepted,
tested, and configured to work together. Without Oscar, each of these
tools would need to be installed, tested, and configured separately--a
process that can take days.  Included in the package are Portable Batch
System (PBS), which queues computing jobs for running on a cluster,
Parallel Virtual Machine (PVM), which allows parallel applications to
run on clusters, MPICH, a tool that allows Message Passing Interface
(MPI) codes to run on many high-end computing systems, and Cluster
Command and Control (C3), a suite of tools to simplify the use and
administration of clusters.

"Commodity cluster computing is no longer just for technical experts;
the simplicity of OSCAR opens the doors to the general public," said Al
Geist, head of the heterogeneous distributed computing group at ORNL.
"Participation by IBM, Intel, and other vendors in the OSCAR cluster
software effort plays a key role in public acceptance."

The developer's version of OSCAR supports Linux clusters using Intel
IA-32 processors.  The subsequent full release of OSCAR will also
support the IA-32 with support for Intel's new Itanium processor to
follow in Summer 2001.

The Open Cluster Group is a collaboration among technology companies and
major research centers led by IBM, Intel, Oak Ridge National Laboratory
and the University of Illinois' National Center for Supercomputing
Applications. Other collaborators in the Open Cluster Group are Dell,
SGI, MSC.Software Corporation, and Veridian. For more information visit
http://www.openclustergroup.org.

The National Center for Supercomputing Applications is the leading-edge
site for the National Computational Science Alliance. The National
Science Foundation, the state of Illinois, the University of Illinois,
industrial partners, and other federal agencies fund NCSA. For more
information visit http://www.ncsa.uiuc.edu.

Oak Ridge National Laboratory is a Department of Energy multiprogram
facility operated by UT-Battelle. Funding for ORNL is provided by the
Mathematical, Information, and Computational Sciences (MICS) Division of
the Office of Advanced Scientific Computing Research (OASCR) of the US
Department of Energy (DOE). For more information, see
http://www.csm.ornl.gov.
