Press release for OSCAR 1.2.1

March 11, 2002 - Champaign, IL The Open Cluster Group (OCG) has
released OSCAR 1.2.1, a new version of the software package that makes
configuring and maintaining a Linux cluster as easy as installing
commercial software from a CD.

OSCAR stands for Open Source Cluster Applications Resources. The
software is available for download from the OSCAR project page at
OSDN's SourceForge.net, http://oscar.sourceforge.net/.

OSCAR 1.2.1 integrates the System Installation Suite (SIS) open source
software package into the OSCAR package. SIS (http://www.sisuite.org/)
is a cluster installation tool based on the SystemImager
package. OSCAR Version 1.2.1 enhances security through the addition of
OpenSSH encryption. It also includes the latest versions of LAM/MPI, a
tool that allows Message Passing Interface (MPI) codes to run on many
high-end computing systems; Portable Batch System (PBS), which queues
computing jobs for running on a cluster; and MPICH, another tool for
running MPI codes. Cluster Command and Control (C3), a suite of tools
to simplify the use and administration of clusters, also is part of
OSCAR.

Users interested in the new version of OSCAR also are invited to
attend OSCAR Install Fest. The event will take place March 14 on the
Sourceforge.net Clustering Foundry
(http://foundries.sourceforge.net/clusters/) and will give users the
chance to work with OSCAR researchers to get their clusters up and
running.

OSCAR is a software development project of the OCG, a collaboration
among technology companies and major research centers dedicated to
providing a common base platform for cluster computing. OCG members
are IBM, Intel, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, the University of
Illinois' National Center for Supercomputing Applications, Indiana
University, Dell, SGI, and MSC.Software Corporation.

OSCAR is a complete Linux cluster infrastructure that allows users to
set up a parallel Linux supercomputing cluster in hours. The tools
included in OSCAR are all community accepted, tested, and configured
to work together.

For more information on OCG, see http://www.openclustergroup.org/.
