
OAK RIDGE, Tenn., April 22, 2003 -- The OSCAR working group is pleased
to announce the release of version 2.2.1 of the Open Source Cluster
Application Resources (OSCAR) toolkit.

The OSCAR toolkit is used to build, configure and manage clusters. Its
primary objective is to make use of "best practices" for Cluster High
Performance Computing (HPC). OSCAR enables a user to setup and maintain
a cluster with the same software typically found on HPC Clusters, while
greatly reducing the complexity of the installation and configuration
process.

This release offers several enhancements; including improved support for
IA-64 based systems (e.g. Itanium I, II). The base SystemImager tool of
the System Installation Suite (SIS) was upgraded to v3.0. This upgrade
adds a wealth of new functionality, including: modular kernel support,
Gigabit Ethernet and USB keyboard support for autoinstall clients. The
improved hardware detection allows nodes to automatically load necessary
modules based on the target hardware. Also, the ability to set machines
to initially network boot using PXE and then modify subsequent boots to
use the local hard disk has been added.

There were several other package upgrades, including the Kernel_Picker
tool, which assists with the selection of alternate kernel in OSCAR
installations. The OSCAR DAtabase (ODA) and OSCAR Package Downloader
(OPD) were enhanced to offer a more robust database and a remote package
acquisition facility. The C3 power tools were updated, as was the
LAM/MPI package.

In addition to package updates, the network collection facilities were
enhanced. The ability to both import and export MAC addresses from/to a
file has been added to assist those maintaining large clusters or who
have this data available. Also, an auto-assign and auto-dhcpd
configuration was added, which when coupled with the import facility
speeds the node definition process and results in nodes starting the
build process earlier. 

The OPD tool allows for updated or "3rd party" packages to be obtained
from remote OSCAR repositories. Several packages are available including
the Ganglia system monitoring tool, the Clumon performance monitoring
system and GM-oscar, a tool to configure Myrinet on OSCAR clusters.

The 2.2.1 releases offer full support for RedHat 7.2 & 7.3 and Mandrake
8.2. There is experimental support for RedHat 7.1 and Mandrake 9.0.


ANNOUNCEMENT: The OSCAR group would like to invite all interested users
to attend the first annual OSCAR Symposium this May 11-14, 2003 in
Sherbrooke, Canada. http://oscar2003.ccs.usherbrooke.ca/


The OSCAR working group is a consortium of industry, academic and
research participants. Primary contributors are Bald Guy Software, Dell,
IBM, Intel, Indiana University (IU), Intel, MSC.Software, National
Computational Science Alliance (NCSA), Oak Ridge National Laboratory
(ORNL) and Sherbrooke University. OSCAR is the product of the OSCAR
working group of the Open Cluster Group (OCG). OCG is dedicated to
making cluster computing practical. These groups are open to all
interested in participating.


Related resources:
   + OSCAR Working Group Homepage
     http://www.OpenClusterGroup.org/OSCAR

   + OSCAR Project Homepage
     http://sourceforge.net/projects/oscar

   + Open Cluster Group Homepage
     http://www.OpenClusterGroup.org

   + OSCAR Mailing Lists
      User Questions: <oscar-users@lists.sourceforge.net>
         Development: <oscar-devel@lists.sourcefore.net>

   + 2003 OSCAR Symposium
     May 11-14, Sherbrooke, Canada
     http://oscar2003.ccs.usherbrooke.ca


ORNL is a Department of Energy multi-program research facility managed
by UT-Battelle.

