% -*- latex -*-
%
% $Id: license.tex,v 1.2 2002/10/27 12:53:47 jsquyres Exp $
%
% $COPYRIGHT$
%

\subsection{Disable Services}

The \cmd{disable-services} package contains the following copyrights
and licenses.

\begin{verbatim}
Copyright (c) 2002 The Trustees of Indiana University.  
                   All rights reserved.

Indiana University has the exclusive rights to license this product
under the following license.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1) All redistributions of source code must retain the above
   copyright notice, the list of authors in the original source code,
   this list of conditions and the disclaimer listed in this license; 
2) All redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
   copyright notice, this list of conditions and the disclaimer listed
   in this license in the documentation and/or other materials
   provided with the distribution; 
3) Any documentation included with all redistributions must include
   the following acknowledgement:

    "This product includes software developed at the Pervasive
    Technology Labs at Indiana University. For technical information
    contact Andrew Lumsdaine at the Pervasive Technology Labs at
    Indiana University.  For administrative and license questions
    contact the Advanced Research and Technology Institute at 1100
    Waterway Blvd. Indianapolis, Indiana 46202, phone 317-274-5905,
    fax 317-274-5902."

Alternatively, this acknowledgement may appear in the software itself,
and wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally appear.

4) The name "disable-services" or shall not be used to endorse or
   promote products derived from this software without prior written
   permission from Indiana University.  For written permission, please
   contact Indiana University Advanced Research & Technology
   Institute.
5) Products derived from this software may not be called
   "disable-services", nor may "disable-services" appear in their
   name, without prior written permission of Indiana University
   Advanced Research & Technology Institute.

Indiana University provides no reassurances that the source code
provided does not infringe the patent or any other intellectual
property rights of any other entity.  Indiana University disclaims any
liability to any recipient for claims brought by any other entity
based on infringement of intellectual property rights or otherwise.

LICENSEE UNDERSTANDS THAT SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" FOR WHICH NO
WARRANTIES AS TO CAPABILITIES OR ACCURACY ARE MADE. INDIANA UNIVERSITY
GIVES NO WARRANTIES AND MAKES NO REPRESENTATION THAT SOFTWARE IS FREE
OF INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY PATENT, COPYRIGHT, OR OTHER PROPRIETARY
RIGHTS.  INDIANA UNIVERSITY MAKES NO WARRANTIES THAT SOFTWARE IS FREE
FROM "BUGS", "VIRUSES", "TROJAN HORSES", "TRAP DOORS", "WORMS", OR
OTHER HARMFUL CODE.  LICENSEE ASSUMES THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
PERFORMANCE OF SOFTWARE AND/OR ASSOCIATED MATERIALS, AND TO THE
PERFORMANCE AND VALIDITY OF INFORMATION GENERATED USING SOFTWARE.

Indiana University has the exclusive rights to license this product
under this license.
\end{verbatim}

