% -*- latex -*-
%
% $Id: intro.tex,v 1.4 2002/06/11 20:52:59 mchasal Exp $
%
% $COPYRIGHT$
%

\section{Introduction}

The OSCAR cluster installation HowTo is provided as an installation
guide to users, as well as a detailed explanation of what is happening
as you install. This document does not describe what OSCAR is however.
For an overview of OSCAR and the intentions behind it see the
\file{oscar\_introduction} document located in the docs subdirectory.
A list of software and hardware requirements for OSCAR can be found in
the \file{oscar\_requirements} document as well.  There are both
``Quick Start'' and detailed installation sections in this guide. Due
to the complicated nature of putting together a high-performance
cluster, it is strongly suggested that you read this document through,
without skipping any sections, and then use the detailed installation
procedure to install your OSCAR cluster.  Novice users will be
comforted to know that anyone who has installed and used Linux can
successfully navigate through the OSCAR cluster install.  If you are
too impatient to read manuals, and your cluster meets certain
requirements, feel free to try your luck with the ``Quick Start''
installation.

Let's start with a few basic terms and concepts, so that everyone is
starting out on the same level. The most important is the term
\term{cluster}, which when mentioned herein refers to a group of
individual computers bundled together using hardware and software in
order to make them work as a single machine. Each individual machine
of a cluster is referred to as a \term{node}. Within the OSCAR cluster
to be installed, there are two types of nodes, \term{server} and
\term{client}. A \term{server} node is responsible for servicing the
requests of \term{client} nodes.  A \term{client} node is dedicated to
computation.  The OSCAR cluster to be installed will consist of one
server node and a number of client nodes, where all the client nodes
have homogeneous hardware.  The software contained within OSCAR does
support doing multiple cluster installs from the same server, but no
documentation is provided on how to do so. In addition, OSCAR does not
support installation of additional client nodes after the initial
cluster installation is performed, although this functionality is
planned for later releases.

The rest of this document is organized as follows.  First, a ``Quick
Start''section is provided for people who hate manuals.  The ``Quick
Start'' section is {\bf not} for the Linux or clustering novice. Then,
an overview is given for the installation software used in OSCAR,
known as SIS.  Third, an outline is given of the entire cluster
install procedure, so that users have a general understanding of what
they will be doing.  Next, the cluster installation procedure is
presented in much detail.  The level of detail lies somewhere between
``the install will now update some files'' and ``the install will now
replace the string `xyz' with `abc' in file \file{some\_file}.'' The
reasoning behind providing this level of detail is to allow users to
fully understand what it takes to put together a cluster, as well as
to allow them to help troubleshoot any problems, should some arise.
Last, but certainly not least, are the appendices.
Appendix~\ref{app:net-boot-client-nodes} covers the topic of network
booting client nodes, which is so important that it deserved its own
section.  Appendix~\ref{app:client-install} provides curious users an
overview of what really happens during a client install.
Appendix~\ref{app:troubleshooting} tackles troubleshooting, providing
fixes to known problems and where to find help for unknown problems,
as well as telling how to start over with a new OSCAR install.  And
finally, Appendix~\ref{app:security} covers some security aspects of a
linux cluster.

\subsection{Supported Distributions}

OSCAR has been tested to work with several distributions. Table~\ref{tab:oscar-distro-support}
lists each distribution and version and specifies the level of support for each. In order to ensure
a successful installation, most users should stick to a distribution that is listed as \emph{Fully supported}.

\begin{table}[htbp]
  \begin{center}
    \begin{tabular}{|l|p{3in}|}
      \hline
      \multicolumn{1}{|c|}{Distribution and Release} &
      \multicolumn{1}{|c|}{Status} \\
      \hline
      \hline
      RedHat 7.1 & Fully supported \\
%
      RedHat 7.2 & Fully supported \\
%
      Mandrake 8.2 & Experimentally supported \\
      \hline
    \end{tabular}
    \caption{OSCAR supported distributions}
    \label{tab:oscar-distro-support}
  \end{center}
\end{table}
